# Chess-Engine
Original Project Synopsis:
Our group wishes to make a predictive model for the game of chess that will predict what the best move is for a given board state. For a data set, we are using all chess games available in the FICS database for the year 2020 (4,781,473 games) without move times (since our model’s goal does not necessarily need move times and these would unnecessarily bulk up the file size). Since the data set lists moves in order, we will have to create a chess engine that can parse these moves in order to create a database of board states, whose move it is, moves made in that board state, and the eventual game result stemming from the moves made. We will then use machine learning to predict what the best move to make is for a given board state. To give the model a board state, we will also create a board state parser that works with our chess engine or require that the board state be given in terms of a series of moves if the former option does not work. The overall objective for the machine learning model would be for it to be able to predict the best move for every board state. However, given how lofty this goal is for us with our limited prior experience with machine learning models, our group’s primary goal is to learn about machine learning models by hands-on experience.

The original project synopsis was written before beginning work on the project. To begin, we copied a someone else's notebook (link in our notebook) that attempted to accomplish a similar goal. However, this notebook had no data provided (although I suspect they used the same data set we eventually used), so most of the work was spent retraining the model with our data set. Speaking of the data set, the data set mentioned in the original project synopsis was too large to add to the GitHub repository and also difficult to make work with the notebook, so we switched to the data set available here: https://www.kaggle.com/datasnaek/chess. We also cannot use all of the games from this dataset with the RAM limits in Google Colab, so we use anywhere from 10,000-17,000 games from the data set.

While we have generally accomplished all of the goals from the original project synopsis, there were some minor changes. First, we went with a neural network as that is what we found code available for and is the most appropriate model for a chess engine. Second, we did not implement our own chess board because there is already a Python library that does so better than we could. Lastly, while the model generates moves, the model cannot check if moves are legal, so they rearely are.
